packages/string_literal_finder/README.md, before:

[![Pub Version](https://badgen.net/pub/v/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/)
[![Dart SDK Version](https://badgen.net/pub/sdk-version/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/)
[![Pub popularity](https://badgen.net/pub/popularity/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/score)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/hpoul/string_literal_finder/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=CIEU46D62O)](https://codecov.io/gh/hpoul/string_literal_finder)

# string_literal_finder

Simple command line application and **analyzer plugin** to find non translated string literals
in dart code. Makes sure when localizing your app that you externalized all strings.

Tries to be smart about ignoring specific strings.

## Installation & Usage

```shell
$ pub global activate string_literal_finder
$ pub global run string_literal_finder --path=example
2020-08-08 15:11:31.273227 INFO string_literal_finder - Found 1 literals:
2020-08-08 15:11:31.274592 INFO string_literal_finder - lib/example.dart:17:30 'not translated'
Found 1 literals in 1 files.
```

## Integration with IDE analyzer

It is possible to get the warnings directly in your IDE by
configuring `string_literal_finder` as a analyyer plugin.

![IDE Warnings](_doc/string_literal_warning.png)

1. Install dev dependency

    ```shell
    flutter pub add --dev string_literal_finder

    # The above will add the following to your pubspec.yaml
    dev_dependencies:
      string_literal_finder: ^1.0.0 # Make sure to use the latest version.
    ```
   
2. Configure `analysis_options.yaml`

    ```yaml
    analyzer:
      plugins:
        - string_literal_finder

    ```

    optionally add additional exclude globs to `analysis_options.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    string_literal_finder:
      exclude_globs:
        - '**/*.g.dart'
        - '**/*.freezed.dart'
    ```

3. Restart your analyser.

    ![Restart analyzer](_doc/restart_analyzer.png)


## Example

The following dart file:

```dart
import 'package:string_literal_finder_annotations/string_literal_finder_annotations.dart';
import 'package:logging/logging.dart';

final _logger = Logger('example');

void exampleFunc(@NonNls String ignored, String warning) {}

void main() {
  exampleFunc('Hello world', 'not translated');
  _logger.finer('Lorem ipsum');

  final testMap = nonNls({
    'key': 'value',
  });
}

@NonNls
String ignoreFunction() {
  // all strings in this function will be ignored.
  return 'foo';
}
```

will result in those warnings:

```shell
$ dart bin/string_literal_finder.dart --path=example
2020-08-08 14:38:47.800339 INFO string_literal_finder - Found 1 literals:
2020-08-08 14:38:47.801934 INFO string_literal_finder - lib/example.dart:17:30 'not translated'
Found 1 literals in 1 files.
$ 
```

# Ignored literal strings

* Any argument annotated with `@NonNls` or `@NonNlsArg()`
* Anything which is parsed into the `nonNls` function.
* Anything passed to `logging` library `Logger` class.
* Any line with a line end comment `// NON-NLS`

Commit message:

Add configuration options to ignore constructor calls & method invocation target types using URIs.

packages/string_literal_finder/README.md, after:

[![Pub Version](https://badgen.net/pub/v/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/)
[![Dart SDK Version](https://badgen.net/pub/sdk-version/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/)
[![Pub popularity](https://badgen.net/pub/popularity/string_literal_finder)](https://pub.dev/packages/string_literal_finder/score)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/hpoul/string_literal_finder/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=CIEU46D62O)](https://codecov.io/gh/hpoul/string_literal_finder)

# string_literal_finder

Simple command line application and **analyzer plugin** to find non translated string literals
in dart code. Makes sure when localizing your app that you externalized all strings.

Tries to be smart about ignoring specific strings.

## Installation & Usage

```shell
$ pub global activate string_literal_finder
$ pub global run string_literal_finder --path=example
2020-08-08 15:11:31.273227 INFO string_literal_finder - Found 1 literals:
2020-08-08 15:11:31.274592 INFO string_literal_finder - lib/example.dart:17:30 'not translated'
Found 1 literals in 1 files.
```

## Integration with IDE analyzer

It is possible to get the warnings directly in your IDE by
configuring `string_literal_finder` as a analyyer plugin.

![IDE Warnings](_doc/string_literal_warning.png)

1. Install dev dependency

    ```shell
    flutter pub add --dev string_literal_finder

    # The above will add the following to your pubspec.yaml
    dev_dependencies:
      string_literal_finder: ^1.0.0 # Make sure to use the latest version.
    ```
   
2. Configure `analysis_options.yaml`

    ```yaml
    analyzer:
      plugins:
        - string_literal_finder

    ```

    optionally add additional exclude globs to `analysis_options.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    string_literal_finder:
      exclude_globs:
        - '**/*.g.dart' # included as default
        - '**/*.freezed.dart' # included as default
    ```
   
    optionally add constructor calls using URIs to types that shall be ignored to `analysis_options.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    string_literal_finder:
      ignore_constructor_calls:
        - 'package:flutter/src/widgets/image.dart#Image' # included as default
    ```
   
    optionally add method invocation targets using URIs to types that shall be ignored to `analysis_options.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    string_literal_finder:
      ignore_method_invocation_targets:
        - 'package:flutter/src/widgets/image.dart#Image'
    ```

3. Restart your analyser.

    ![Restart analyzer](_doc/restart_analyzer.png)


## Example

The following dart file:

```dart
import 'package:string_literal_finder_annotations/string_literal_finder_annotations.dart';
import 'package:logging/logging.dart';

final _logger = Logger('example');

void exampleFunc(@NonNls String ignored, String warning) {}

void main() {
  exampleFunc('Hello world', 'not translated');
  _logger.finer('Lorem ipsum');

  final testMap = nonNls({
    'key': 'value',
  });
}

@NonNls
String ignoreFunction() {
  // all strings in this function will be ignored.
  return 'foo';
}
```

will result in those warnings:

```shell
$ dart bin/string_literal_finder.dart --path=example
2020-08-08 14:38:47.800339 INFO string_literal_finder - Found 1 literals:
2020-08-08 14:38:47.801934 INFO string_literal_finder - lib/example.dart:17:30 'not translated'
Found 1 literals in 1 files.
$ 
```

# Ignored literal strings

* Any argument annotated with `@NonNls` or `@NonNlsArg()`
* Anything which is parsed into the `nonNls` function.
* Anything passed to `logging` library `Logger` class.
* Any line with a line end comment `// NON-NLS`
